Bioconductor: Tools and Software for the Comprehension of Genomic Data

Sean Davis on behalf of the Bioconductor Core Development Group

The Bioconductor project is an open-source, NIH-funded software development project that aims to provide tools for the analysis and comprehension of high-throughput genomic data. Based on the R statistical software package and language, Bioconductor has a very active developer community and a user community likely in the 10's of thousands. With contributed packages covering a broad spectrum of high-throughput omics technologies, designed for interoperability and with accompanying documentation, Bioconductor tools can be useful for the bioinformatics specialist, the software developer, and the bench scientist. Project infrastructure including a website, software repository, software review, support forums and email lists, and course materials. Bioconductor tools enhance computational reproducibility by embracing software versioning and literate programming techniques. Training and education are a core mission of the project and numerous courses are available per year, with even more presented at local institutions and via third parties.  With two releases each year, currently including about 1000 software packages, and an active user community, Bioconductor is constantly growing and adjusting to community needs and technological advancements. R and Bioconductor are available for free and can be installed on nearly all common computing systems including Mac, Windows, and Linux. 
